feat(Badge): add Badge spec (#16644)
microsoft/fluentui: specs/Badge.md

> # Badge

Reviewer: Add a link to the Epic issue for Badge Convergence

Author: Added https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/issues/16254 is it correct?

Reviewer: #16925 is the issue to link, but it looks like you did that.

> # Badge

Author: https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/pull/16868

## Background

A badge is an additional visual discriptor for UI elements.It can be used to denote numerical value, status or general information.

## Prior Art

_Include background research done for this component_

- [OpenUI Research](https://open-ui.org/components/badge.research)
- [AntD](https://ant.design/components/badge/)
- [Atlassian](https://atlassian.design/components/badge/examples)
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/components/badge/)
- [Fast](https://explore.fast.design/components/fast-badge)
- [MaterialUI](https://material-ui.com/components/badges/#badge)
- [Lightning](https://www.lightningdesignsystem.com/components/badges/)
- [React Native](https://reactnativeelements.com/docs/badge/)

## Sample Code

```jsx
  <Badge>

>     <Text>My Custom Badge</Text>

Author: Nops, not really necessary. I find it ok to leave it showing how to combine the usage but I can remove if it is passing the wrong message.

>     <Text>My Custom Badge</Text>

Author: Removed

  </Badge>
  <Badge
    status="success"
    style={{ position: 'absolute', top: -4, right: -4 }}
  />
```

## Variants

`Badge` can have several variations.

- Appearance: `default`, `rounded` and `circular`
- Size: `smallest`, `smaller`, `small`, `medium`, `large`, `larger`.
- Styles: `filled`, `outline`, `ghost`, `tint`, `inverted filled`

## API

| Property Name | Type      | Default Value | Description                  |
| ------------- | --------- | ------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `size`        | `enum`    | `medium`      | The Badge size               |

> | `status`      | `enum`    | `none`        | The Badge status color       |

Reviewer: This `status` enum seems specific only to certain types of badges. The basic badge should probably just allow a color value to be set instead of having an enum built in.

Then the variants like `PresenceBadge` can define an enum like this and apply appropriate colors based on the enum.

Author: We had a discussion about color prop and that is not going in. User has the shred colors listed in the spec has reference but will not be supported directly by the Badge, the only badge colors that will be implemented out of the box will be the ones used for Status or Presence ( semantic colors ) and any other color should be the user to create some custom badge

Reviewer: Yeah having a color prop has problems of its own. But having a `status` enum on the base badge has problems too, because the child badges would have two ways to set their color--what does it mean to set both `status` and `presence` on a `PresenceBadge`?

I think having the base badge have no opinion about colors is best. It'd just need some way for the child types like `PresenceBadge` to pick colors of their own.

If we want to support status colors like this, perhaps we need a `StatusBadge`?

Author: Yeah, the basic badge will have no opinion about color, I am ok with `StatusBadge` although I don't see a problem with having `status` and `presence` to set `color` and `icon`

| `rounded`     | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge has rounded corners |
| `circular`    | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge is circular         |
| `filled`      | `boolean` | `true`        | If Badge is filled           |
| `outline`     | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge is outlined         |
| `ghost`       | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge is ghost            |
| `inverted`    | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge is inverted         |

> | `tint`        | `boolean` | `false`       | If badge is tint             |

Reviewer: These boolean props (filled, outline, ghost, inverted, tint) are all mutually exclusive with each other. Perhaps they should be a single enum prop?

Author: Agreed

Author: I am simplifying the base badge to 

| Property Name | Type   | Default Value | Description                         |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `size`        | `enum` | `medium`      | The Badge size                      |
| `shape`       | `enum` | `rounded`     | The Badge can have different shapes |
| `variant`     | `enum` | `filled`      | THe Badge different style variants  |

Agree?

## Structure

- _**Public**_

```jsx
<Badge />
```

- _**Internal**_

```jsx
<ElementType>{children}</ElementType>
```

- _**DOM**_

```html
<span class="ui-badge">
  ...
</span>
```

## Migration

- _Migration from v8_

Initially the `PersonaPresence` enum that is used to create the `Badge` in the `Persona` component can still be used to define the set of options that can be passed to the new `Badge` component.
Optionally it can support both simultaneously by adding new shorthand `Badge` prop to `Persona` and allowing it to be the `badge` slot over the `presence` or `Badge` could be used separately and share same container as
`Persona` component.

- _Migration from v0_

> `Badge` can be passed to `Avatar`'s `status` prop or be used by sharing same container.

Author: Thanks, I will update

# [Badge](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/issues/16925)

## Background

A badge is an additional visual discriptor for UI elements.It can be used to denote numerical value, status or general information.

## Prior Art

- [OpenUI Research](https://open-ui.org/components/badge.research)

## Sample Code

```jsx
  <Badge>
    My Custom Badge
  </Badge>
  <Badge
    style={{ position: 'absolute', top: -4, right: -4 }}
  />
```

## Variants

`Badge` can have several variations.

- Appearance: `default`, `rounded` and `circular`
- Size: `smallest`, `smaller`, `small`, `medium`, `large`, `larger`.
- Styles: `filled`, `outline`, `ghost`, `tint`, `inverted filled`

## API

| Property Name | Type   | Default Value | Description                         |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `size`        | `enum` | `medium`      | The Badge size                      |
| `shape`       | `enum` | `rounded`     | The Badge can have different shapes |

> | `variant`     | `enum` | `filled`      | The Badge different style variants  |

Reviewer: You should include all properties that the `BadgeProps` type will have. It'd probably be best to just include the planned contents of Badge.types.ts instead of this table. That way you can just paste it into the implementation, and don't need to duplicate work writing this table then translating it to code later. Or, since you already started the implementation, just paste the contents of Badge.types.ts here.

(See the [Avatar spec](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/blob/master/packages/react-avatar/SPEC.md#API) for an example of what I mean.)

> | `variant`     | `enum` | `filled`      | The Badge different style variants  |

Reviewer: I think the prop name `variant` is too vague. Maybe `appearance`?

Author: Changed

## Structure

- _**Public**_

```jsx
<Badge />
```

- _**Internal**_

```jsx
<ElementType>{children}</ElementType>
```

- _**DOM**_

```html
<span class="ui-badge">
  ...
</span>
```

## Migration

- _Migration from v8_

Initially the `PersonaPresence` enum that is used to create the `Badge` in the `Persona` component can still be used to define the set of options that can be passed to the new `Badge` component.
Optionally it can support both simultaneously by adding new shorthand `Badge` prop to `Persona` and allowing it to be the `badge` slot over the `presence` or `Badge` could be used separately and share same container as

> `Persona` component.

Author: Alright, my bad since I thought there should be some compatibility

    General guidance is that the badge icon is marked as “aria-hidden” by default.

- Badge shouldn't rely only on color information

  - Include meaningful descriptions when using color to represent meaning in a badge. If relying on color only [unread dot] ensure that non-visual information is included using aria-describedby

- _Variants_

`Badge` is base component that can be used to create custom `Badge` such as `PresenceBadge` or `CounterBadge` with specific behaviors.

### Presence Badge

A Presence Badge represents someone's availbility or status

## API

| Property Name | Type      | Default Value | Description                                                                                |
| ------------- | --------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `size`        | `enum`    | `medium`      | The Badge size                                                                             |
| `status`      | `enum`    | `available`   | The Badge status representation                                                            |

> | `inOffice`    | `boolean` | `true`        | The Badge can be represented in different ways depeding if user is in or out of the office |

Author: Alright, we can do it once we have `PresenceBadge.types.ts`

### Counter Badge

A Counter Badge is a visual indicator for numeric values such as tallies and scores.

## API

| Property Name   | Type      | Default Value | Description                                                    |
| --------------- | --------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`          | `enum`    | `medium`      | The Badge size                                                 |
| `shape`         | `enum`    | `circular`    | The Badge can have different shapes                            |
| `variation`     | `enum`    | `filled`      | The Badge different style variants                             |
| `color`         | `enum`    | `accent`      | The Badge has a pre defined set of colors                      |
| `overflowCount` | `number`  | `99`          | `+` is displayed when count is larger than the specifed count. |
| `showZero`      | `boolean` | `true`        | If badge should display number if count is 0                   |

> | `count`         | `number`  | `0`           | value to be displayed                                          |

Author: Didn't get it

| `inverted`    | `boolean` | `false`       | If Badge is inverted         |
| `tint`        | `boolean` | `false`       | If badge is tint             |

## Structure

- _**Public**_

```jsx
<Badge />
```

- _**Internal**_

```jsx
<ElementType>{children || content}</ElementType>
```

- _**DOM**_

```html
<span class="ui-badge">
  ...
</span>
```

## Migration

- _Migration from v8_

Initially the `PersonaPresence` enum that is used to create the `Badge` in the `Persona` component can still be used to define the set of options that can be passed to the new `Badge` component.
Optionally it can support both simultaneously by adding new shorthand `Badge` prop to `Persona` and allowing it to be the `badge` slot over the `presence` or `Badge` could be used separately and share same container as
`Persona` component.

- _Migration from v0_

`Badge` can be passed to `Avatar`'s `status` prop or be used by sharing same container.

## Behaviors

- Badges don't receive focus:
  Badge information would be surfaced as part of the control that it is associated with, badges themselves do not receive focus meaning they are not directly accessible by screenreaders.

>   If the combination of icon and badge communicates some meaningful information, that information should be surfacedin another way through screenreader or tooltip on the component the badge is associated with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the combination of icon and badge communicates some meaningful information, that information should be surfaced in another way through screenreader or tooltip on the component the badge is associated with.
```
typo

- Badge shouldn't rely only on color information

>   Include meaningful descriptions when using color to represent meaning in a badge. If relying on color only [unread dot] ensure that non-visual information is included using aria-describedby

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Include meaningful descriptions when using color to represent meaning in a badge. If relying on color only [unread dot] ensure that non-visual information is included using aria-describedby
```

`aria-describedby` of the parent component or of the `Badge` component?

Reviewer 2: Aha, got the answer from the next section, please consider re-ordering them :)

- Screen Readers

>   Badges should be given a meaningful description. This description will be applied, via “aria-describedby” to the element decorated by the Badge. For example, "Chat, 6 unread" or similar.

Reviewer 3: This should be added to DOM samples IMO

Author: This is more like good practices? Since it should be applied to the element that contains the badge and not to the badge itself. Don't think it should be added to the the DOM section here.
